Tutorial Transcript pt.1
Hi everyone. So this is going to be the tutorial video for the trouble with
tribles uh which is our our second kind of major lab assignment uh in proseminar 2. Um
you will not be building this particular monstrosity that I've put before you
right now. Um you will be doing something a little bit simpler. Um, I I
kind of like to show this kind of thing because it's a a way of seeing my process and how I I came to um create
the network that produced this. Um, and so what I'm going to do is I'm going to produce something very similar to this
so that you understand the way that the nodes work and the way that you could create a thing like this from
photoggramometry. Um, but what I'm I'm really gonna do,
um, here is, uh, I'm gonna drag another view into the scene here, and I'm going
to be giving you all a copy of this file, which I've just referred to as
simplified uh, triples project. And what it does is it gives you a lot of notes
and it it shows you the way that a really clean network um would uh allow
you to to switch out options for this concept that we've been talking about um
and we will talk about in class which is generative art and procedural modeling in general and using this concept of
tribles like these weird little creatures that you can randomize uh certain attributes on create appendages
for and material switchers and that kind of a thing. Um, but
you know down the line what you're going to do is create a population of those objects. Um, and we're going to use that
kind of idea of hybridity as a metaphor to think about like what do these hybrid
uh systems really do? What does it mean to to quote unquote create a hybrid um
model? Um, and how do we define that in the data? um and and do things like
check our geometry spreadsheet to sort of understand um you know maybe what are the underlying attributes that are creating
um this quote unquote randomization. Um so that's where we're headed. Um what
I'm going to do uh is pause really quickly and come right back um with a a cleaner system. I again you all will
have the ability to to sort through this and and uh really just click through it and understand how this is happening. Um
and I'm going to let you all do that on your own. And right up at the top here, you can see you all will be able to to
like replace these things with things of your own and start thinking about how the parameters work. Um so I'm trying
not to to overwhelm you with too much Houdini, but at least throwing you still
in the deep end with um this network system. Um, so I'm going to pause here
and come back and just show you a little bit of the basic modeling tasks so that you might be able to create um,
appendages and things like that that could be randomized.
So here we are in a empty network. Um, I'm going to
open things up a little bit for you all. Um, and one of the things I I think you
all should learn how to do, what I'm going to do is is do another quick pause. Um, but I want to make sure that
you all can can see this in the video a little bit better. So, if you all are having any trouble like seeing icons and
things like that. Um, one of the things you didn't see in the initial videos is um, ways to change your viewport. Um,
right now the global UI scale for this 4K monitor is 1.5. I'm going to bump that up to do up to two. Hit apply
and hit accept. And you'll see nothing has changed. Um but as soon as I restart uh the software, the next window will
have that. So I'm going to do that really quick. Um and just take you all from there.
Okay. Hopefully this is a little easier to see. Uh let's start with this empty network. Um just as you saw in the in
the initial videos, I'm going to have my my left hand on the keyboard here. So, I can just keep hitting tab and I'll just
lay down a geometry node. That's where we're going to start. I'm going to double click on that uh on that object
to go into the geometry uh context first. Um let me just drop down. I'm
going to type uh tab here and just drop down a quick sphere. Um and we're going
to start um from there. Now that I've got something up here, um I might as well set my project. Um, so what I want
you all to uh be sure to do is um when you what you're going to do is create a
new project actually inside of your um your project folders. So what I'm going
to do is uh call this um triplet Houdini Labs as my project name. And
then under project path I'm going to click on this button. I'm going to go to my X drive. Uh for you all it will be
it'll look a little bit different. you won't see this Proseminar 2, but you will see like your name here. And so you
can see I've got this one already created. Um, so what I would do is, you
know, I would put it like kind of in this level. Um, but since I already created one, um, you know, I'm going to
kind of cheat a little bit here. You're not going to need all of these. So I'll just I'll hit accept here, but I'm not
actually going to create this. I'm just going to set my project. So let me just walk you through that. So, Houdini HDA,
we're not going to do a simulation. No need for YIC. We do not need renders,
flip books, we can do, well, let's keep renders up there. Scripts, most of these things we're just we just don't need.
Um, this is primarily what we're going to need. Um, objects, geometry, right?
Textures, that kind of stuff. Um, and then I would hit accept. Um, I'm going to hit cancel because I've already done
this. And if you've already opened a uh created a project and you want to just make sure that you're always working in
that project, we're going to go to set project and I'm just going to quickly go
uh here
and this this is it. So I created one that's like, you know, much bigger, but um I'll just accept that.
Good. Um so you all will probably be using set projects. What I'm going to do is give you guys that um that template
and it's going to have everything that you need inside of it. Um we're going to go over that in class, but that's just a
a quick housekeeping kind of thing to do. Um so let let's begin um
let's begin with this simple object um as a as a sphere. Now, this could be if
you wanted to import your um your photoggramometry objects. You would u
hover over here, hit tab, go to file, and I've populated a few objects for
you. Um so, I wanted to just show you all how that worked. If you go to dollar job, that's uh a a way of of using
what's called relative paths to make sure that you're looking in your project folder. dollar hip is the same thing.
Um, if we go and save uh the project. So, I'm
going to do save as job and I'm going to call this um
video dribbles, right? And hit accept. So, that saved my scene.
We have a project and a scene. Now when I go into file and we click on here, if
I go to either hip or job since the hip file that which is just the name of your
scene file is in the same folder as the job file. So those things don't really matter. U but for a dollar job we'd go
to geo and I've got all of these like little objects um from the national museum touch collection, the African art
collection. Um, if you go to OBJ, you could just kind of grab Let's Let's pick
up this gel mask. Um, OBJ right there. Um, and if you put the
render flag on that, then you'll have this kind of untextured object. Um, we
can then, um, add another node below this called UV quickshade
just so we can see our texture. And the texture map that we want is going to be we're looking for the gal mask texture.
And there you go. Okay. So, that's kind of what what you might begin with. Um I'm not going to get into this part of
things too much today. Um we're just going to kind of leave it just leave it there. Um,
we can do some fun stuff with uh, you know, converting the color into point
attributes and things like that, but we'll wait for that for another time.
The next thing I want to do is just make sure, you know, this object's already kind of settled. But if I wanted to
quickly resize it, um, like I knew a bounding box, for instance, and and
reposition it, I can uh add what's called a match size node, which is really very powerful. Um,
I'm going to click on that, and you can see it puts the center kind of in the in
the middle of the origin by default. If you switch to justify Y, remember X, Y,
and Z are visible here. Um, you're going to justify Y to the minimum. It will
always place the object on top. That's a a nice little trick. Um, you can also
scale it to fit and say, um, you know, you want it to to fit a uniform scale to
another object. So, I could drop down a box and say this box is one by one by
one. And if I drop that match size in, it's now going to match that
object, it's moved it down. Um, so what we want to do uh quickly here is just kind of fix
these. Let's do not uniform scale, but only scale it maybe on the Y.
And you can kind of elongate it so that it only fits within the Y and the rest stay exactly as they are. Or you could
say instead of best fit, just use the Y that way and say make sure the Y fits, but
everything else will get bigger instead of changing it. And you can see it goes outside the bounds. Um, that's another
just kind of quick trick. Um, you know, we can we can fit some of these um if we
move our box. Another procedural technique here is to
um take the box itself that we're we're dealing with and say what is its size
and we're always going to um move the object up half its size. So I'm going to
say copy parameter and I'm going to paste that in here
as a relative reference and divide by two. And when we turn that on, that's it. So,
what's cool about that is if you go back in and you ever like change the size,
it's always it's going to be able to change the size very easily just on that one slider. And I'm using the middle
mouse button here um when I do this um to just kind of pull that up and
down, but it always stays on top of of the uh the grid that way.
All right, let's continue on with a little bit more randomization for this object. Um, what I'm going to do is just
kind of create some funny little uh horn shapes that, you know, can be uh
attached and randomized um to just like the top of this. Um it's this is not a
super wellthought aesthetic decision. It's just a a demonstration. So um I thought we'd try
uh from there. Um, so let's go first and say where this is going to happen. Um,
I'm going to pull down from the match size and hit tab and say attribute
paint. And I'll put the render flag on there. And you'll see by default it kind of
goes to this purple thing. If we are in the viewport and we hit enter, it now
gives us this attribute paint. You see this little brush? Um, you can kind of
zoom in a little bit here. The brush is always going to stay the same size even if you zoom in. So, some of you have use
sculpting tools before. Sometimes the brush actually always stays like kind of in pixel space. This is a little bit
different than that. Um if for instance you want to um you know change the brush
radius you can hit control and shift and left mouse button and that will kind
of shrink that down. Um and so I'll do that. I'm going to make sure that the
horns that we're going to put on here are only going to be here [snorts]
and here.
Okay. And you can see it has a drop off. So, this is places where it's just like slightly less likely to scatter points
that will eventually uh become like little horn shapes and things like that. Okay, not going to dwell on that for too
long here. Uh the next thing um that we want to do is just drop down that
scatter so we can see where we're going. Um so
all right. Um so let's look at that attribute paint actually a little bit
uh more clearly here. So by default it just creates an attribute called mask. I'm going to rename that and just call
this like where horns go. Um, and the
purpose of that, if we kind of go back, um, and see where we're where we're
painting, we're going to say it's going to be a float attribute. Um, and so if I
go back to my geometry spreadsheet, you're going to see a point attribute
here that says where horns go, and you're going to see some different values, right? So definitely horns are
always there and they're definitely there and less likely there that kind of thing and definitely not there. That's
all we're looking for there. Okay. So that's just a way for you all to understand that all of this stuff is being driven by uh attributes that you
create. So let's uh scatter some points on that. So I'm going to pull this down. Hit
scatter. And what we're going to do with that
system is we're going to keep it by density. And we're going to have a density
attribute which is called where horns go. And if I just turn on the scatter,
you're going to see this is what it's going to do by default. That's kind of a lot. Let's pull down the number of horns
a little bit to something like a little bit more manageable. Okay. And I'm going to rename my first
one. And I'm going to call this scatter warrants. Great.
Now, what we want to do is add a few more um attributes. Um so on these
points that already exist, we're going to do some fun stuff. Um so I'm going to pull down a um
a network uh box right here. Actually, I'm going to pull this one out of it.
and just keep this one separate. And we're going to call this like horn
variation attributes.
All right. And our first thing that we're going to do is drop down another node called an attribute
adjust. And the thing we're adjusting is a float. So it's called attribute adjust
float. I'm going to wire these up. Make sure that gets rewired and that gets rewired.
Another quick trick, if they didn't go over this, if you hold down Y, if you ever need to disconnect a wire, hold
down Y for these little scissors and just go like that. It's kind of a useful
trick. Another thing you can do is just go and shake it off.
Okay, we're going to call this one horn length. Things that we can do to uh
to the horns. we can adjust their length. Um,
and we're going to say under horn length that instead of
pattern being constant, we're going to make it random, a minimum and maximum of like maybe 0.05, so at least looks like
we can see it. And maybe something like 0.25. Okay. And if I go back to my geometry
spreadsheet, um, and I've got this one visualized, um, we want to make sure that we're
putting it on the correct, um, location.
And the way to do this is we're not going to be doing it on the scale. That's a special attribute. We're going
to rename this horn less.
And really, when in doubt, use underscores. That's just something you're going to see me do a lot. So, now
we have horn length right there. I'm going to go back to scene view. Nothing has changed because we haven't done anything with it yet, but just bear with
me here. We're going to drop down another one. Um, we could even Let's
actually do this a little faster. We're going to go crl +v to copy it and just
rewire that in. And instead of horn length, now we're going to call it horn
bend. Um, and inside horn bend, we're going to
say, uh, it's also going to be random. It's
going to be change the name here. It's going to go from zero to 120.
Something like that. Good. And I'm going to go do that one
more time. We're just adding a few things that we're we want to randomize. Um, so how much does the horn bend is a
good thing to to play with there. Okay. So on this one,
we're going to call this horn squish.
and make sure we reame this one as well so we can don't get lost.
A horn squish. Um, and I know the the
basics of this. Um, so just kind of bear with me. You're like, where are you getting these values? It'll be clear
later. So, I'm just going to make it from 0.5 to four. Um, that's the amount of kind of yeah, just kind of
bulbousness. Um, we also need to know where is that kind of bulbous part going
to be. So, let's add um I'll just copy and paste that one more
time. And we're going to call this uh horn squish
for position. And I'll do the same thing here. POS.
And we're going to make that from let's say 05 to
like 7. Okay. And that that can be obviously that can be adjusted later. Um
what if we also want to twist the horns? Okay, that's something we could do. Going to hit control CRLV.
All of these ideas of things that you can do to it are going to come from
really one node that we're going to add later, which is um really very powerful.
Um which is is just called the bend node. It has a lot of these kind of attributes built into it. Um so just
bear with me for now. We're just doing the setup. Uh so this one is going to be
uh horn twist.
And let's see what kind of values can we have for that. Something I mean it can
really go pretty dramatic. So 180 to let's do like negative 180 to
180. So it's going to kind of spin around. And we'll copy this.
Okay. This is kind of the part where you're probably going to watch this on double speed. Um, but it's worth seeing
as it as it comes together. So, the last one we're going to do, um, instead of a float, we're going to have an integer.
Um, so let me drop this one down
because this last one, where on earth did that go?
Let's do that again. I must have missed it.
There it is. Good. Um, this last one is different because we're going to call
this one the variant. So, it's going to decide which of two different kinds of horns are we going to put on there. Um,
and we're going to name that horn variant
and do the same here.
Okay, so that's enough setup for now. Let's do something a little bit more interesting. Um, let's drop our first
super basic horn. We're gonna hover over here to create a
network box. That's where that rogue adjust integer went. There we go.
Let's drop another channel. Uh, sorry, network box. And this is going to be
uh horn bandage one.
Not a very inspired name. Um, but this is some true procedural modeling and I think it's a a good way to just be
introduced to how this stuff works. So, let me hit the tab key and just start with a simple line.
Drop that line in here. And you can see it's its scale is a bit a bit much. Um,
I'm going to kind of mess with it a little bit later. Um, I want it to have
And if we turn this little button on here, we're going to be able to see uh points a little bit clear more clearly.
So, I'm going to drop a bunch of points in here. And I don't know how clear that
is, but you can see lots of little kind of more little green dots appearing. Um,
I can make those a little bit bigger. Um, in fact, I think I will. Um, so I'm going to pause for just a moment here.
So, if you hit the D key when you're hovering over the viewport, it opens up all these display options. I don't want
to get too into this, but my point marker size was like way too small. I just want to pull that up a lot. Um, and
then I'm going to close that. Good. Now, we can see those a little bit
better um as we start adding more and more points. Okay. So, that gives it more information when we do the bend
later. So, that it will bend kind of smoothly if you do that. Um the length I'm going to keep this at something like
yeah like 0.2 or something like that. Um for now um we're going to be working on
creating a a a very short little script here in a minute but I'm going to leave it alone for now.
From here I'm going to take that uh object and just do a simple sweep. I'm going to hit tab and add the sweep tool.
Okay. And um you know by default it's going to give us this round tube. I'm going to make it a little smoother than
that. Um the radius is a bit much that going
to be let's say 0.01 something like that. Uh so if you accidentally add too
many points there it's going to turn green because it thinks it's a function. Um if you ever do something like that
just rightclick in there and say delete channels. It's a weird way to phrase that but that's kind of what's what
we're doing. Um, so I'll leave that um there. Um, I do want to have endcaps. So
I'm going to say single polygon end caps and visualize that. The end caps will
create these little kind of ends like this. Okay, super simple. Um, nothing
special. Um, one thing we always want to do though is instead of putting this,
you'd think like horns go up. It's a little complicated, but I want to make sure you all remember that if
you're doing this kind of process, it's always a better idea to make everything move in the Z direction. So, I'm going
to move the direction here to 0 0 and one. So, it's going in the positive Z
direction. Um, that's because Z is the direction of like all extrusions uh away
from an object's normals, which are um just vectors. And when I say vectors, I
mean uh a a direction. So an x y and z direction for every polygon. And in
Houdini, they call those prims. But they'll have normals on your let's say your scan data that say which way is out
like where does this polygon face? And if your objects that you're copying to
those to the surface of those objects like those scatter points, um if Z if
the object is pointing in the Z, it'll always go away from uh from the surface.
Okay, so that'll probably hopefully be clearer soon. I'm going to pull down another um tail here and say tab. And
now we're going to add that bend. And we're going to do a lot of stuff in here later, but I want to just show you what
a bend tool does. Um you can see it visualizes this kind of long thing and
you can kind of do that right. Um that's if you want to do it in here. What we're
going to do is mostly in this parameter um space. Uh so let me give myself a little bit of
of room here. Okay. So we're visualizing that bend.
Um what I want to do here is um give it an angle. The bend is something that I
can control right here. Okay. So, I'll just kind of do something like this so we can always see what it's doing. Up
vector is correct. Like, so that's that's kind of the direction we want it to go.
And what we want to do as well is do a taper and as well as well as a twist. So
the taper I'm going to make sure that um it always
tapers so that it comes to a point on the end. In order for that to work, we need to know, you know, what is the the
length of the entire line. Um so what I'm going to do is um
we're going to grab another attribute and and put it in there.
Pause. Okay. So what we want to do here to uh
remember we need this um capture direction to be now it's moving in the Z
which is correct but our capture length is too long. So we want to drive that capture length by the length of our
entire line. So let me copy that parameter put it in here. And now my
capture length I'm going to paste that as a relative reference. Okay. So, right
click, paste relative reference, and I'm going to hit enter. Now, no matter what,
if I change the length of the line, the the taper distance or the the um the
bend distance, if that makes sense, is always going to be the same as the length of the line. That's really kind
of important because um what you're going to do is just taper that down to a
point. Okay. So, that's one thing that we we really need to uh to keep an eye
on. Um, another thing that we talked about doing is doing the twist settings.
Um, so that's, you know, another thing that you could do, this is cylindrical,
so we're just not going to bother with this version. So, I'm going to kind of leave that alone for now. For this really simp, this is like the simple
horn. Um, so I think we're going to kind of leave that there. Um, I'm going to create um another uh horn
appendage, let's call it, um, over on the right here. That's going to be a little bit more complicated.
So, let's create another network box. And
unfortunately, if you have something selected, it will always put the network box over the thing you selected. There we go. U, this one's going to a little
bit more uh be a little bit more complicated. So let's go and call this
or endage listed
something like that. Okay. So let's it has to have some information in there to to be able to see that. So let's start
um even more procedurally. So I'm going to start just with a simple circle
and I'll drop that in. Um, and that that circle I'm going to
want on that XY plane because remember we're going to be kind of extruding out in this direction. Um, but let's have
uh let's have it be a bit smoother. Let's like say wow like why not just like even 100.
Just make it nice and smooth. It's a polygon so that's adding a lot of data. Um but you'll you'll see in a moment uh
what this is going to do. uh what we're going to do is um
we're going to
we're going to change this radius to something much smaller. So let's go to 0 2
and 0.02 002 for both.
Zoom on down here. So this one will be a little bit thicker. Um, and this is a
little bit uh confusing, but we're going to have to control this object a little bit u by adding uh an attribute
expression um to change its uh its normal values.
Um, what I'm specifically talking about is what I want to do is for all of the
points that are around this circle, um, I want them to have a normal
direction that points away from, uh, the center of the object. So, this is
probably the more adv only real advanced thing I think that we're going to cover today. Um, but just bear with me here.
So, we're going to add um an attribute
expression and we're going to work on that normal
for the points. Right? So, here we have this object
and we want to look at its points. all of those things like it does not have point normals that are facing anywhere
other than just when you turn that one on, you're seeing they're all pointing towards uh the center. And what I want
to do is just create kind of a jagged pattern around it. And so I'm going to use the normals to do that. So let me um
just switch this really quick. And there's a an option in here called
where is it? Um ah here it is. Spherify normals. And if I turn that on, you're
going to see what it's going to do is it's going to point every one of those things away. And it's created this little vex expression right here. Um I'm
giving this to you the short way just because there's like a template that's already there. Um let's not focus on
this too much. I'm going to add in an another useful uh trick here called uh
an attribute adjust float, which we've seen before.
There we go. And what we're going to be working on um
for that um is uh what we're going to call a radial
offset. Okay. So, let's call this new thing
radial offset with an underscore. We're going to be
working on points. Um, we want a pretty small um I think instead of uh constant
um we're going to do a little bit of noise and we're going to say that noise
is going to be negative like so it's going to go inward about
point five and a maximum value of 0.2.
Um, we don't really have to to think too much um about this. We can do like a
range length. Um, I think minimum and range length is better. So like 02 is
the amount of movement um that you're going to get. Um, and we're going to call that
uniform. And the noise type that uh that we want is just going to be called simplex. And
we want really small values for this so it doesn't get too crazy. And we'll I'll visualize this in a moment. Um, and
we're going to say like 6.1, something like that. I mean, just something big. Um, that part you'll you'll figure out
in just a moment. Um, because in order to see this, we're going to look at our geometry spreadsheet and see I've got
these numbers, but they're not doing anything. But I can act on them with uh what's called the peak node. So, I'm
going to drop down peak. And peak is going to operate um by
default on um your normals. Um but we don't want to recmp compute those. We
want to use the ones that we already had. Um and the mask attribute. Um what
we're going to do is scale by attribute. And instead of mask, we're going to go by radial offset. Um, and right now the
distance is pretty small, but what if I crank that up? Okay, it's going to do
this like really crazy thing. I'm going to leave it some somewhere like about like that. And knowing that this is
another this option is a is very random, right? So,
just very quickly kind of looking at um what all of these things this this
little offset could be randomized so that you always have a random shape that's being generated. And this is kind
of fun. It gives you a way to um um to fix things up so that they're random,
but they're not too kind of unclean, I guess. Um, so really quick, once we once
we've done that, we don't want these normals anymore. Um, so I'm just going
to create an attribute delete.
And the point attribute we want to delete is the normal. And we turn that on. And now everything's facing out. And
it looks a quite a bit cleaner now. Yeah, that's pretty good. Um, another
thing I want to do is Sure. It looks pretty smooth. Um, I'm going to make it I'm going to make it worse like like
find one. Yeah. Like something really ugly like this that has intersecting pieces to it. Um, I can still clean that
up um with one of my favorite nodes which is this um fit or spline fit node.
Um, it's going to convert this into a nice clean thing. Um, it's doing quite a
bit of like heavy work here. So, we're going to want to um maybe take this
tolerance down a bit to something like
something like that.
Okay. And that's going to that's going to give us a nice cleaner shape that doesn't intersect with itself. Um, and
we're going to do this as what's we're changing it into a thing called a called nerves, which are like a vector graphic.
Um, we can talk about that later. I still need this to be a um a polygon
thing. So, let's just drop down another useful uh node which is called reample.
And that is going to essentially grab um the information that you have
um and give you um information around it. So the level of detail and all that
stuff is is not really the thing we're messing with. We don't want maximum length segments. What we want is a
maximum number of segments and we're going to kind of pull that up
until it looks kind of interesting. Something more like that. So it seems like you know what are we doing where we
had something pretty good and then we had did it simplified and then we complicated it again. That's just a way
of converting things into the the data format that we want. Um, so if you
remember, um, we have, um,
another quick trick to extrude this thing, um, out by, uh, creating a sweep.
And I'm just going to plug. If you hover over the um the inputs
right here, it'll say what is the thing that you're sweeping? And that's the
cross-section. And then it's saying what are you going to sweep along? And what what I might do is just keep the exact
same line that we had before. Um, or if I wanted the line to be kind of
different, like a different length so that these are always longer, then maybe let's just do that. We'll just create
another line and it'll be called line two. And I'll I'll plug that one in just to kind of
give us an idea where we're where we're headed with that. Um, again, we would still have to kind of pull that way up
to make sure that it bends and all of that um nicely. So, let's have a look at what that did. Uh if we turn on the
sweep by default it's going to do some things that we don't expect. Um one of them is the line is facing the
wrong direction. So let's do that here. And
we can also um you know control this length a little bit. Let me just make it
like point let's say 2 for now. Something like that.
And if you look at this, you're like, why is that so simple? Um, we don't want the round tube. We want the second input
cross-section. And that's going to give us what we want. Let me turn these normal visualizers and the point visualizers
off. That's pretty good. We do want single polygon end caps. So, we've got
this thing, right? Um, we're going to pretty much repeat
what we already did with that previous bend. Um, so why don't we just copy that
and paste it. And this second bend will go right here.
I'll pull this up and make sure this is on top. And remember that the purpose of that is
now I can move all of these together. So now we have something very similar.
And I need to make sure that this says line one. I want to switch
that to line two.
And now I've got this line driving that.
All right, that's pretty simple. Um, this shouldn't be, you know, too confusing. Um, hopefully you all are are
following along with where we're headed here. Um, we don't have to get too much more complicated um, beyond this. Um,
what I want to do is just drop down what's called a switch node um, right
down here. And I'm going to put the first option
here and the second option there. And I'm going to turn on that switch node and say now we're swapping between these
two. Um, one thing I do want to do in the bend because that was kind of the whole point is we want to twist it. Um,
so unlike the previous one, um, that did not have, um, any twist to it.
So, let's turn that on. And we're going to kind of show you just a little bit like what that what that looks like.
Okay. So, just right down the middle. You could even go really aggressive and
say like 300. And now it's going to really get
twisted. Okay. Now, eventually that'll be driven by the point data that we already had. So, you
know, it may not be as as dramatic as that. Okay. So, there's that. Perfect.
Um, we're moving along and we're we're actually really close to the end. There's going to be a pretty nice payoff
here, I think. Um, so let's do the important work. Um, so this is where
again, other than that little kind of uh what did we do? The attribute expression
um there's a little bit of what's called VEX code in there. But um this is the next more complicated thing. What we
want to do conceptually is um we're going to operate on every single point
is going to take its information and apply it to things that are happening in
these two options. So in order to do that, we need to to drop down what's called a for each loop.
And you got to spell it right. Okay. So, what we're going to do is for
each uh point and we're going to drop that down
and we're going to copy one horn. So, I'm going to do this thing
called uh copy two points. There we go. And we're
going to put that in the middle. So it begins by grabbing one point doing a
thing and then when you know and then kind of iterating back to the beginning
back to the beginning and at the end it has it accumulates all of them and has done something different to every point
that comes into it. So here we are. I'm going to link those up together. Um I
can put my switch node in here because that's what I'm copying to points. Um, and if we kind of zoom away,
okay, we should see, unless we've got this wire, we do have it wired backwards. Um, that's kind of fun.
That's another um, let's call that glitch art.
Um, the geometry that we're copying is going to come from here. So, now we've got, as you see, one horn. If we went
back down here to the end, you'd see it's just doing the one thing. Um, but
we want to do something a little bit more procedural because it's just grabbing the one horn. It's not actually
taking those fun attributes that we already created on the points. Um, so we have to tell each of these things to pay
attention to what's going on over here. Um, so let me let me begin um with let's
say the simplest one. Let's go to bend one. And in here, what I'm going to do
right under, let's start with bend angle because that's uh
horn bend is a thing that we did. And remember we
we created this attribute called uh called horn bend,
right? And what we what we're going to do is uh
go back in here and look at the bend angle and make sure that it refers to something um that's in the point. Um so
bear with me. Um we're going to actually write our very first little um
expression here. And I'm going to it's I'm already trying to say I'm going to be acting on points. And when you do
this, it it says kind of what everything is supposed to do. Um, you can kind of
follow along. This is not the clearest thing ever. So, I think this is going to be one where you're just going to have to kind of trust me here. The first
thing you want to do is say I'm going to I'm not going to wire this, but I do want to um I do want to refer to it.
Okay. So, I'm going to say dot dot slash. So that means go outside of this
node and now it's saying okay what do you want to refer to? Um and I want to
res refer to for each begin and say so that's what I'm going to be
looking at is the node that's there. Um I'm going to want to say what's uh
um which input uh are we paying attention to? The input is uh you know
the zero. So, the first input um and then what do we want it to be
paying attention to? And I want horn. Let's see. It was called horn bend.
And I'm just going to kind of conclude there. Okay. So, you're almost just going to have to trust this. If I click
on bend angle, um let's look to make sure that hornbend is Yep, that's
spelled correctly. Um, and let's just look at the at if we
we've got a little bit of an error and it may say, yeah, there's a there's an there's an
issue right there. So, let me make sure that I've written that correctly.
Okay, I definitely did not um instead of uh
finishing that right there, I I didn't do that right. Uh, so I need um just to
conclude that that quote. Okay, so just look at the at the tutorial and trust me
on this one. Um, that's what it's going to do. So it's going to it's going to handle the horn bend angle based on
that. So here's this random point and that's just the the horn bend random
horn bend that's being applied to that very first uh example. Um, and if you
want, um, you can kind of visualize it a little
bit and see, you know, that these are are bending slightly differently. Um, you can kind of see them doing that.
Okay, so we're we've got our first one. Once we've got one of these, the nice thing is if we have anything else that
also needs to do that, um, we can we can basically cut and paste. So I'm going to
copy this and not copy the parameter. I'm just going to copy the text. Go control C.
And we remember that we had a squish thing and it was called
um horn squish.
And we also had the squish pivot. And that was going to be called
squish pause. underscorepos.
And that's kind of doing some randomization there. Um, and our capture
length is still just referring to that line. Okay. So, let's do the same thing over here with this bend.
Um, we're going to go up to uh check our our bend angle.
Um, and it's probably going to be the same thing. So, uh, we we're going to
take, um, that horn bend. So, let's just like copy
over from here. Just make sure that we've got everything straight. Now, we could have just copied
the whole node, honestly. Um, if I was going to do that again, I would probably do that. Um, we're going to drop that
one here. And then we're going to say um drop this one here. And remember to call
this horn twist.
And we've got the horn squish.
Squish. And that's going to refer to squish
position. [snorts] Right? So now you get this kind of funny
twisted bulbous thing and all of them are going to the same the same option.
Right? It's going down to the switch node. But we've we're missing one one last element
um on this which is um we want to to swap out the the option kind of you know
which thing is going to get copied.
And to do that um we're going to do something really similar. We're just going to say go look at porn
[snorts] variant. And now it will randomly swap between
the two variants. And if we go down to here, we should we're we're almost there. Um let's double check on that to
see where we might have gone wrong. So the easiest way to check that is
let's just go to the geometry spreadsheet. And we can see right here horn variant.
It's all zero. Okay. So something was clearly not correct in here.
There we go. Constant value zero. We want uh something like random with a maximum
value of zero to one. And then it's just going to do that. And if we go back to
our scene view, yes, now we have a little bit more randomization going on.
And if we want to visualize that on top of the object, I'm going to go down to tab and say merge.
And from here I can take all the way up to either
let's do it like after the quick shade. Let's do it. Yeah, let's do it right
there. We don't need anything more than the position to be the same.
And there we go. Now we can do some other stuff. I'll let you all play with that. Um, this is kind of where I'm
going to end this tutorial because, you know, from there we can get into more complicated things, but if you if you
export this object out, um, you know, you can pull it in as a mesh with all of
these kind of weird things on it. Um, you can randomize the material that goes
onto them. Um, those are things I'll let you all play with, but um, don't get too bogged down on it. Um the next kind of
step is to um take this object u that you've created. So maybe you make this
entire geometry like geometry one um let's call this um
um mask with horns.
And if you did that in a in inside of the template that you already had, you can just refer back to that at the top
of that network and it will randomize that for you. Okay? So I will let you
all kind of play with that on your own and and if we get to it in class, I'll I'll demonstrate that as well. So um
this has been a just a quick introduction honestly to um the way that
this concept of randomization and generative um uh 3D modeling works and
procedural modeling in general. Um, this is not how I normally begin a tutorial in Houdini, but I think because we're
we're kind of thinking along the lines of data visualization and that kind of thing, I think this was a good way for
you all to remember how to check the geometry spreadsheet and see how you can take one form of data like points that
are completely detached from another form of data and just attach um random
numbers that can affect just about anything. Anything can be an attribute. Um so if you all are downloading
spreadsheet data there's methods for that to even become a way a pipeline um
into this software. So um I want you all to to do this assignment like create
something like this. It does not have to be this mask um but it could be one of your objects and put some horns on it.
That's kind of all we need need to do to think about the randomization just so you learn how it works. Okay. And I'll
I'll leave you all there.